hey YouTube this is the Columbia River
knife and tool Hammond Cruiser now you
might have noticed something this
doesn't look like the old Hammond
cruiser well they have a new model it's
pretty much the same knife but it has a
black coated blade and desert desert
coloured handle scales alright now let
me show you this next to the old model
of Hammond cruiser alright there are
days next to the older model and I
really like the combination of the
desert tan color handle scales with a
black blade I think it well they have to
be honest I think it's an improvement I
think it looks a lot better now this
knife the Hammond Cruiser along with the
desert cruiser which is a similar model
you can look up this is a very good
medium large folder if you're on a tight
budget people always ask you know what
if I only have $20
well this knife is on Amazon right now
for basically for $20 and I think it is
a good bargain alright now this the
Hammond cruiser has been covered
extensively so let me just give you a
review a little mini review now you see
it has a honeycomb texture pattern but
mainly the contour of the handle
excellent pinky ramp here finger choil
they're integral guard it gives an
excellent grip and it is a large knife
it's about 3 and 3/4 inches in blade
length show you yeah get serrations you
know it is a drop point and this comes
with 2 clips and I actually have both
clips on I just wanted to see if the
other one you know actually fit and it
did but one of the screws they gave me
was too short but it doesn't matter
because you only really need to right so
it is a four position you know you can
put it any position you want
I prefer left-side tip up the opening
mechanism is a flipper texture pretty
easy to open it is a liner lock
mechanism it is very solid there's no
blade play now it does use you know a
cheap steel or a cheap earth steel but
that doesn't mean it can't be you can't
get use out of it alright and I will
include the full stats in the text box
obviously I just wanted to give you look
at it it does have a secondary secondary
lock it is manual ok so it's not going
to annoy you by you know if you want to
push it up there it is that is the locks
system basically an inserts a little
piece of steel prevents the liner from
moving over just a little added security
but overall you know the oversized hands
off first of all
easy opening oversized handle with a
good contour gives you an excellent grip
you know that's pretty much why I like
it for this price and here's a size
comparison with two of its strongest
competitors if you're on a budget just
check out these three and pick whichever
you know has your preference but the
middle knife the bird
Caracara - alright and obviously the
Kershaw tremor up top and all these
knives you know you can sometimes get
them for 20 that the Kershaw tremor is
close to the 30 but sometimes you can
find it on sale so let's just say
between 20 and 30 all of these are
pretty good in their own ways if you
want something that's more slim and
light go with the Caracara - right if
you have big hands you'll probably like
the tremor or the hamon cruiser more
because it's just larger size handles
now the tremor is assisted a lot of
people don't like assisted okay so if
you're not a fan of assisted then you
might want to go with the CRKT
and also the speed safe assist does tend
to break after a while so if you're sick
of that you know check out the hammond
cruiser don't conclusion i'm very happy
that they came out with this new color
scheme i do think it looks i do think it
looks really nice and it is
you know I definitely recommend this if
you're on a tight budget you know
obviously you're gonna have to resharpen
it more often etc but for 20 bucks it's
an excellent piece hope you enjoyed this
video stay tuned for many more I'm out